&nbsp;
## Stats

Gear can be swapped, but stat point allocations from reincarnations cannot be. You also cannot change your primary stat selection. This makes it extremely important to allocate these stat points wisely, as they are permanent, irreversible decisions.

You should generally aim to allocate your points such that your most important stats end up no higher than about 25-26 **without gear** at the end of your final reincarnation. To do this, you need to know the natural stat maximums for your race and class combination, as well as be aware of other sources of stat point increases.

These include, but are not limited to:
- **Becoming legendary.** Some classes gain stat points when they become legendary.
- **Legendary ranks.** Some legendary ranks also provide stat points.
- **Medals.** Medals can provide +2 to each stat.

This way, we are able to allocate more points in other stats, while still retaining the ability to make use of +stat gear.

As a contrived example, consider the following two players with natural stats of 15 `STR` and 21 `CON`:
- Player 1 was not thinking when he reincarnated. He put all 5 points into `CON`. With a medal, his `STR` is now 19 and his `CON` is 28.
- Player 2 thinks a little bit before reincarnating. He puts 3 points into `CON` and 2 into `STR`. With a medal, his `STR` is now 21 and his `CON` is 26.
- Now Anista comes and offers all players a free +2 `CON` belt and a weapon with weight 23.

Our first player is 4 `STR` away from using that weapon. He could fill that gap with ranks, but 8 rank points is a high price to pay. Furthermore he is unable to utilize the belt at all. Putting too many points into `CON` has hurt his potential. Meanwhile, our second player happily puts on the belt, and is only 2 `STR` away from using that weapon. Filling the gap with only 4 rank points spent is much more reasonable, and unlike the first player he would even be free to spend the other 4 points elsewhere.
&nbsp;

&nbsp;

### Test Your Reasoning
Suppose our end-game character is a Dargonesti Paladin. Assuming we select `STR` as our primary stat, what is the maximum number of points we should put into `STR` for optimal allocation?

### Jordan's Answer
- The maximum natural roll for a Dargonesti Paladin's `STR` is `19`. 
- Selecting it as their primary stat increases it to `20`. 
- They gain +2 from the Legendary Righteous Indignation rank, increasing it to `22`.
- They can also gain +2 from their medal, increasing it to `24`.
- Thus, they should allocate no more than 2 points to `STR` (ending up at `26`).
